---
title: FAB Comprehensive Rules – Game Concepts
description: The fundemental concepts of Flesh and Blood.
document: cr
chapter: 1
---

# Game Concepts @@cha:game_concepts@@



## General @@sec:game_concepts_general@@


### The rules in this document apply to any game of Flesh and Blood.

#### @@rule:golden_rule@@ If an effect directly contradicts a rule contained in this document, the effect supersedes that rule.

#### If a tournament rule contradicts a rule contained in this document or an effect, the tournament rule supersedes that rule or that effect.


### @@rule:restriction_requirement_allowance@@ A restriction is a rule or effect that states something cannot happen. A requirement is a rule or effect that states that something should happen if possible. An allowance is a rule or effect that states something can happen. A restriction takes precedence over any requirement or allowance, and a requirement takes precedence over any allowance, subject to [[rule:golden_rule]].

> **Example:** "They can't defend this with equipment" is a restriction, "They must defend this with equipment they control if able" is a requirement, and "They may defend this with equipment they control" is an allowance.

> **Example:** If one effect reads "You can't play cards from your banished zone," and another effect reads "You may play cards from your banished zone," the restriction takes precedence over the allowance and the player cannot play cards from their banished zone.

#### A restriction that states that "only" something can happen is functionally equivalent to a restriction that states everything else cannot happen.

> **Example:** Three of a Kind has the text "[...] you may only play cards from arsenal," which is a restriction equivalent to "you cannot play cards from anywhere other than arsenal." Even if an effect would allow you to play a card from your banished zone (an allowance), or require you to play your next card from hand (a requirement) you would not be able to play that card because of the restriction effect generated by Three of a Kind.

#### A restriction or requirement does not retroactively change the game state.

> **Example:** Overpower is an ability with an effect that prevents its source from being defended by more than 1 action card (a restriction). If an attack is already defended by two or more action cards and then it gains overpower, none of the existing defending cards are retroactively removed from defending.



## Players @@sec:players@@


### A player is a person participating in the game.

#### To participate, a person must have a hero, a card-pool, a way to represent any tokens and counters that could be created by effects in their card-pool, a way to generate uniform random values for effects in their card-pool, a play-space for zones, and a method to record life totals.


### A player's hero is a hero-card.[[rule:hero_card]]

#### This document distinguishes the player as the person participating in the game and the hero as the hero card of a player.

#### A player plays the game as their hero. Card text makes no distinction between the player and their hero, identifying both identically; the term "you" refers to the player's hero and the term "opponent" refers to the player's opponent's hero.


### @@rule:player_card_pool@@ A player's card-pool is a collection of deck-cards[[rule:deck_card]] and arena-cards[[rule:arena_card]]. A card can only be included in a player's card-pool if the card's supertypes are a subset of their hero's supertypes.[[sec:supertypes]]

> **Example:** If the hero card is Boltyn (supertypes of "Light" and "Warrior"), the card-pool can only include cards with the supertypes of "Light Warrior," "Light," "Warrior," and cards with no supertypes ("Generic").

#### If an effect allows a player to start the game with one or more cards with supertypes that are not a subset of their hero's supertypes, those cards may be included in the player's card-pool as long as they start the game as specified by the effect[[rule:inventory_removed_cards]]. Card text of meta-static abilities refers to the player's card-pool as the player's "deck."

#### A hybrid card may be included in a player's card-pool if either of the hybrid card's supertype sets is a subset of their hero's supertypes.[[rule:hybrid_definition]]


### @@rule:party_definition@@ In a game, a party comprises players who win the game together.

#### A player is always considered to be in a party with themselves, including when they are the only player in that party.

> **Example:** United we Stand has the text "[...] if Boltyn is in your party, create a Courage token under his control." If the player is playing as Boltyn, they would create a Courage token under their own control because they are considered to be in their own party, even if there are no other players in their party.


### @@rule:opponent_definition@@ In a game, a player's opponents include all other players who are not in their party.[[rule:party_definition]]


### @@rule:clockwise_order@@ Clockwise order is the order of players starting from the given player and progressing clockwise among the players when viewed from above. The next player in clockwise order is the player to the left of the given player.



## Objects @@sec:objects@@


### An object is an element of the game with properties[[cha:object_properties]] and located in a zone[[cha:zones]] or a player's inventory[[rule:inventory]]. Cards, attacks, macros, and layers are objects.

#### @@rule:object_owner@@ The owner of an object is the same as the card, macro, or layer that represents it, otherwise it has no owner.

#### @@rule:object_controller@@ The controller of an object is the same as the card, macro, or layer that represents it. An object does not have a controller if it is not in the arena or on the stack.


### @@rule:object_identity@@ An object has one or more object identities that can be referred to. Rules in this document and effects typically describe objects using their object identity as the noun.

> **Example:** Lunging Press has the text "Target attack action card gains +1\{p\}," which identifies the target of the effect, using the "card" object identity as the noun.

#### An object has the object identity "object."

#### An object with a name property and/or moniker has the object identity of that name and/or moniker.[[sec:name]]

> **Example:** Dorinthea, Quicksilver Prodigy has the text "The first time Dawnblade, Resplendent gets go again each turn, [...]," which identifies an object using the name "Dawnblade, Resplendent" as an object identity.

#### A card has the object identity of its traits, types, and subtypes, except for the subtype attack.

> **Example:** Ironsong Determination has the text "Target weapon gets +1\{p\} and dominate until end-of turn," which identifies an object using the type "weapon" as an object identity.

#### A card with the subtype attack on the stack, an attack-proxy on the stack, an attack-layer on the stack, or an attacking object on the combat chain has the object identity "attack."[[sec:attacks]]

> **Example:** Oath of the Arknight has the text "Your next Runeblade attack this turn gains +3\{p\}," which identifies either a Runeblade attack action card on the stack, or attack-proxy created by a Runeblade source, or an attacking Runeblade object; using "attack" as an object identity.

#### A card has the object identity "card."

#### A permanent has the object identity "permanent."[[rule:permanents]]

#### An activated-layer has the object identity "activated ability."

#### A triggered-layer has the object identity "triggered effect."


### @@rule:last_known_information@@ Last known information about an object is a snapshot of the state of an object immediately before it ceased to exist.

#### If a rule or effect requires information about a specific object that no longer exists, instead it uses last known information about that object to fulfil that requirement. Otherwise, if a rule or effect does not specifically refer to that object, last known information is not used.

> **Example:** Endless Arrow has the text "When Endless Arrow hits, put it into your hand." If Endless Arrow hits, it is put into the player's hand. The chain link of Endless Arrow then holds the last known information about Endless Arrow, so that if it had the ability "go again" before it was put into hand the player would still gain an action point when the chain link resolves.

#### Last known information about an object includes all parameters, history, and effects applicable to that object at the time it still existed.

#### Last known information about an object is immutable - it cannot be altered. Rules and effects that would modify the object that no longer exists do not modify the last known information about an object; this may cause effects to fail.

> **Example:** Luminaris has the text "If there is a yellow card in your pitch zone, your Illusionist attacks get go again." If you controlled an Illusionist attack as a chain link on the combat chain, but it was removed, and then you put a yellow card in your pitch zone to meet Luminaris's condition, the chain link does not have go again because the last known information about the attack cannot be altered.

#### Last known information about an object is not an object itself - it is not a legal target for rules and effects.


### @@rule:source@@ Card and macro objects are the source of abilities, effects, non-card layers, and attack-proxies.

> **Example:** Oasis Respite has the text "Prevent the next 4 damage that would be dealt to target hero this turn by a source of your choice." Only cards or macros can be declared as the source for Oasis Respite's effect. Any damage that would be dealt by the chosen source may be subject to the prevention effect.



## Cards @@sec:cards@@


### @@rule:official_card@@ A card is an object represented by an official Flesh and Blood card. The properties of a card are determined by the true text of the card on [https://cards.fabtcg.com](https://cards.fabtcg.com).

#### @@rule:card_owner@@ The owner of a card is the player who started the game with that card as their hero or as part of their card-pool, or the player instructed to create it or otherwise put it into the game.

#### @@rule:card_controller@@ A card does not have a controller unless it is in the arena or on the stack. The controller of a card is its owner as it enters the arena or the player who played that card.


### There are 4 categories of cards: hero-, token-, deck-, and arena-cards.

#### @@rule:hero_card@@ A hero-card is any card with the type hero. A hero-card starts the game as a player's hero.

#### @@rule:token_card@@ A token-card is any card with the type token. A token-card is not considered part of a player's card-pool.[[rule:player_card_pool]]

#### @@rule:deck_card@@ A deck-card is any card with one of the following types: Action, Attack Reaction, Block, Defense Reaction, Instant, Mentor, and Resource. A deck-card may start the game in a player's deck.

#### @@rule:arena_card@@ An arena-card is any non-hero- non-token- non-deck-card. An arena-card cannot start the game in a player's deck.


### @@rule:permanents@@ A permanent is a card in the arena that remains there indefinitely, or until they are destroyed, banished, or otherwise removed by an effect or game rule. Hero-cards, arena-cards, and token-cards are permanents while they are in the arena. Deck-cards become permanents when they are put into the arena (but not the combat chain) and they have one of the following subtypes: Affliction, Ally, Ash, Aura, Construct, Figment, Invocation, Item, and Landmark[[sec:subtypes]].

#### If a permanent leaves the arena, it is no longer considered a permanent.


### @@rule:distinct_card@@ A card is distinct from another card if one or more of its faces has a name and/or pitch value the other card does not have.

> **Example:** Sink Below with 1 pitch (and a red color bar) is distinct from Sink Below with 2 pitch (and a yellow color bar).

> **Example:** The split-card Null||Shock is distinct from Vaporize||Shock because one of the names (Null) is not present on Vaporize||Shock.



## Attacks @@sec:attacks@@


### An attack is an object on the stack or combat chain that represents an act of combat. Attack-cards, attack-layers, and attack-proxies are attacks.

#### @@rule:attack_owner@@ The owner of an attack is the same as the owner of the card or activated ability that represents it.

#### @@rule:attack_controller@@ The controller of an attack is the same as the controller of the object that represents it.


### @@rule:attack_card@@ An attack-card is a card with the subtype attack that is on the stack or that is attacking on the combat chain.

#### A card with the subtype attack is only considered an attack if it is on the stack or if it was put onto the combat chain as an attack. Otherwise, it is not considered an attack.


### @@rule:attack_proxy@@ An attack-proxy is a non-card object with the attack ability[[rule:attack_ability]] that represents the attack of another object (attack-source).

> **Example:** Bone Basher has the text, "Once per Turn Action -- \{r\}\{r\}: Attack" which is an activated ability that creates an attack-proxy. The attack-proxy is a representation of Bone Basher's attack.

#### An attack-proxy is a separate object that acts as an extension of its attack-source[[rule:attack_source]]. It can only be referenced by effects using the object identity "attack"[[rule:object_identity]], but is considered to inherit the properties of its attack-source in addition to any existing properties it has, with the exception of the activated and resolution abilities of its attack-source. An attack-proxy is not a copy of its source and does not have a copy of its source's properties.

> **Example:** Edge of Autumn is a two-handed Ninja sword weapon with 1\{p\} and has the text "Once per Turn Action -- \{r\}: Attack. Go again." When Edge of Autumn is activated to create an attack-proxy on the stack, the attack-proxy has the base ability 'go again' and inherits the 'Edge of Autumn' name, supertype Ninja, type weapon, subtypes (2H) and sword, and the 1\{p\} properties from its source.

> **Example:** Burn Them All has a base 'go again' resolution ability and an attack ability gained from Reality Refractor. When Burn Them All is activated to create an attack-proxy on the stack, the attack-proxy does not have 'go again' because it does not inherit the resolution abilities from its source.

> **Example:** Flail of Agony has the text 'When this hits, create a Runechant token." which is a triggered static ability. When Flail of Agony is activated to create an attack-proxy, and the attack-proxy hits, only one Runechant is created because there is only one copy of the triggered static ability.

#### @@rule:attack_source@@ An attack-source is an object that is represented by an attack-proxy.

> **Example:** Cintari Sellsword has an attack-ability, that produces an attack-proxy when activated. This attack-proxy represents the attack-source, Cintari Sellsword, during combat.

#### @@rule:attack_proxy_duration@@ An attack-proxy exists as long as its attack-source exists, and as long as the attack-source is on the same chain link (if the attack-proxy is on the combat chain). If an attack-proxy is on the stack and the attack-source ceases to exist, or an attack-proxy is on the combat chain and the attack-source is not on the same chain link, the attack-proxy ceases to exist. An attack-proxy is not dependent on its attack-source having the \{p\} property, or the ability that created the attack-proxy.

> **Example:** If a player attacks with a weapon, they create an attack-proxy, and the attack-proxy and the weapon (the attack-source) move to chain link 1. If the player attacks again with the same weapon during the same combat chain, a second attack-proxy is created, that attack-proxy and the weapon (on chain link 1) move to chain link 2, and the first attack-proxy ceases to exist. Last known information is used for the first attack-proxy and chain link 1.

> **Example:** Iris of Reality has the text "[...] Illusionist auras you control are weapons with 4 base \{p\} and "Once per Turn Action -- \{r\}\{r\}\{r\}: Attack. Go again"." If an Illusionist aura creates an attack-proxy with this ability, then Iris of Reality ceases to exist, the attack-proxy does not cease to exist.

#### If an effect applies to an attack-source, the modified properties of the object are inherited by the attack-proxy. Replacement effects that modify effects that apply to attacks do not modify effects that apply to the attack-source.

> **Example:** Ironsong Determination has the text "Target weapon gets +1\{p\} and dominate until end of turn," which applies to a weapon, and is inherited by any attack-proxies of that weapon. A weapon with 3\{p\} would be modified to have 4\{p\}, and its attack-proxies would also have 4\{p\}.

> **Example:** Thrive has the text "If an attack wo uld gain \{p\} this turn, instead it gains that much plus 1." If a player resolves Thrive, attacks with a weapon, then plays an instant card that increases the \{p\} of the weapon, Thrive's effect would not modify the increase in power to the attack because the effect modifies the weapon and does not specifically modify the attack-proxy of the weapon.

#### Effects that reference or apply specifically to an attack-proxy do not reference or apply to its attack-source.

> **Example:** Sharpen Steel has the text "Your next weapon attack this turn gains +3\{p\}," which applies only to the attack-proxy created by a weapons abilities and then applies to the weapon as an attack on the combat chain; it does not continue to apply to the weapon when the weapon is no longer that specific attack on the combat chain.


### @@rule:attack_layer@@ An attack-layer is a layer with the attack effect[[rule:attack_effect]] that represents an attack with no properties on the stack.

> **Example:** Emperor, Dracai of Aesir has the text "Action -- \{r\}\{r\}\{r\}: Search your deck for Command and Conquer, attack with it, then shuffle," which is an activated ability that creates an attack-layer. The attack-layer is a representation of an attack with no properties because it needs to resolve before the Command and Conquer is found.

#### An attack-layer is not an extension of its attack-source. For the purposes of effects, the attack-layer is considered to be either a typical layer or an attack with no properties, but not both.

> **Example:** The attack-layer created by Emperor, Dracai of Aesir is considered to be either a Royal Draconic Warrior Wizard Hero activated-layer or an attack for the purposes of effects. It is not a Royal Draconic Warrior Wizard Hero activated ability attack. Uprising has the text "Your next 4 Draconic attacks this turn gain +1\{p\}," which is a continuous effect that would not apply to this attack-layer because it is not considered a Draconic attack.

#### An attack-layer is considered a separate object from its attack-source for an effect that applies specifically to attacks. If an effect does not apply to an attack layer, it may still apply to the attack-source if it meets the specifications of the effect.


### @@rule:attack_target@@ An attack-target is the target of an attack that is declared when the attack is put onto the stack. If a player plays or activates an attack, or adds a triggered-layer to the stack with an attack effect, the player must declare an attackable object controlled by an opponent as the attack-target.[[rule:play_ability_parameters]][[rule:trigger_declare_parameters]]

#### @@rule:attackable_target@@ An object is attackable if it is a living object[[rule:living_object]], or if it is made attackable by an effect.

> **Example:** The ability Spectra generates an effect that makes its source a legal target for an attack, despite it not being a living object.

#### An attack-target remains the target of the attack until the combat chain closes. The player does not have to declare the same target as a previous attack on the combat chain; declaring a different target to a previous attack does not close the combat chain.

#### If an effect modifies an attack to have multiple targets, all targets must be separate and legal to declare.


### An attack cannot be played or activated if a rule or effect would prevent the player from attacking with that card or ability.



## Macros @@sec:macros@@


### A macro is a non-card object in the arena.

> **Note:** A macro is not a card, even if it is represented by an official Flesh and Blood card. Macros are determined by tournament rules for specific formats.

> **Example:** Sanctuary of Aria is a macro with the text "Instant -- \{r\}\{r\}: Prevent the next 1 damage that would be dealt to you this turn by a source of your choice. Destroy this at the beginning of the end phase."

#### @@rule:macro_owner@@ A macro has no owner.

#### @@rule:macro_controller@@ The controller of a macro is determined by the tournament rule that created it.


### A macro cannot be and is not considered part of a player's card-pool.[[rule:player_card_pool]]


### If a macro leaves the arena, it is removed from the game.



## Layers @@sec:layers@@


### A layer is an object on the stack[[sec:stack_zone]] that is yet to be resolved. Card-layers, activated-layers, and triggered-layers are layers.

#### @@rule:layer_owner@@ The owner of a card-layer is the player who owns the card. The owner of an activated-layer is the player who activated the activated ability. The owner of a triggered-layer is the player who controlled the source of the triggered effect when the triggered-layer was created.

#### @@rule:layer_controller@@ The controller of a layer is the player that put it on the stack.


### There are 3 categories of layers: card-, activated-, and triggered-layers.

#### @@rule:card_layer@@ A card-layer is a layer represented by a card on the stack.

#### @@rule:activated_layer@@ An activated-layer is a layer created by an activated ability. An activated-layer is created on the stack, and then can only exist on the stack.[[sec:activated_abilities]]

> **Example:** Energy Potion has the text "Instant – Destroy Energy Potion: Gain \{r\}\{r\}," which is an activated ability. When this ability is activated, it creates an activated-layer on the stack with the resolution ability "Gain \{r\}\{r\}."

#### @@rule:triggered_layer@@ A triggered-layer is a layer created by a triggered effect. A triggered-layer is created before it is put on the stack, and then can only exist on the stack.[[sec:triggered_effects]]

> **Example:** Snatch has the text "When Snatch hits, draw a card," which is a triggered effect. When this effect is triggered, it creates a triggered-layer to be put on the stack with the resolution ability "Draw a card."



## Abilities @@sec:abilities@@


### An ability is a property of an object that influences the game by generating effects or by creating a layer on the stack that resolves and generates effects. The base abilities of a non-token card are determined by its rules text[[sec:text_box]]. The base abilities of a token card, macro, or non-card layer are defined by a rule, or the effect or ability that created it.

#### @@rule:ability_source@@ The source of an ability is the card or token that has that ability. The source of am ability of an activated-layer or triggered-layer is the same as the source of the ability that created that layer. Activated-layers and triggered-layers exist independently of their source - if the source of an activated-layer or triggered-layer ceases to exist, it does not prevent the resolution of that layer.

#### @@rule:ability_controller@@ The controller of an activated-layer is the player who activated its source. The controller of a triggered-layer is the player who controlled its source when it triggered - if the source has no controller, the controller of the triggered-layer is player who owns the source.


### @@rule:object_with_ability@@ If an object has an ability as a property, it is considered a card with that ability. If the ability is a base ability, it is considered a card with that base ability.

> **Example:** Torrent of Tempo has the text "When this hits, it gets go again." Torrent of Tempo is not a card with base go again. Until Torrent of Tempo hits, it is not a card with go again - once Torrent of Tempo hits and the triggered-layer resolves, Torrent of Tempo will be a card with go again, but still not a card with base go again.


### There are three categories of abilities: activated abilities, resolution abilities, and static abilities. An ability is categorized based on how it generates effects.

#### Activated abilities can be activated by a player to put an activated-layer on the stack.[[sec:activated_abilities]]

#### Resolution abilities generate effects when a layer with the ability resolves on the stack.[[sec:resolution_abilities_resolving_layers]]

#### Static abilities simply generate effects.[[sec:static_abilities]]


### @@rule:functional_ability@@ An activated ability can only be activated when it is functional. A resolution or static ability only generates its effects when it is functional. An ability is functional when its source is public and in the arena; otherwise, it is non-functional, with the following exceptions:

#### An ability of a non-permanent defending card[[rule:defending_card]] is non-functional unless the ability is an activated ability that specifies it can be activated when the card is defending, a triggered ability with a trigger condition that includes the card defending, or a static ability that is stated as an exception.

> **Example:** Rally the Rearguard has the text "Once per Turn Instant -- Discard a card: Rally the Rearguard gains +3\{d\}. Activate this ability only while Rally the Rearguard is defending," which is functional when it is a non-permanent defending card because the activated ability states it can only be activated when the card is defending.

#### An activated ability is functional if its cost can only be paid, or it explicitly specifies it can be activated, when the source is private or outside the arena, and the source meets that condition.[[rule:hidden_activated_ability]]

> **Example:** Mighty Windup has the text "Instant -- Discard this: Create a Might token," which is functional when it is in the owner's hand because the cost can only be paid when Mighty Windup is in the owner's hand.

> **Example:** Guardian of the Shadowrealm has the text "Action -- \{r\}\{r\}: Return Guardian of the Shadowrealm to your hand. Active this ability only while Guardian of the Shadowrealm is in your banished zone," which is functional when it is face-up in the owner's banished zone.

#### A resolution ability is functional when its source object resolves as a layer on the stack, otherwise, it is non-functional.[[sec:resolution_abilities_resolving_layers]]

> **Example:** Sigil of Solace has the text "Gain 3\{h\}," which is a resolution ability that is functional as the card resolves as a layer on the stack to produce its effect.

#### A meta-static ability is functional outside the game.[[rule:meta_static_ability]]

> **Example:** The Specialization keyword is a meta-static ability that prevents the player from including the card in their deck if the specialization does not match their hero card's first name, which is functional outside the game.

#### A play-static ability is functional when its source is public in any zone and when it is played.[[rule:play_static_ability]]

> **Example:** Ghostly Visit has the text "You may play Ghostly Visit from your banished zone," which is a play-static ability that is functional when playing Ghostly Visit, because it affects the rules of how it is allowed to be played.

#### A property-static ability is functional when its source is in any zone or outside the game.[[rule:property_static_ability]]

> **Example:** The \{p\} and \{d\} of Mutated Mass are defined by a property-static ability which is functional at all times, based on the current total number of different costed cards in the pitch zone in the current game state.

#### A while-static ability is functional when its while-condition is met.[[rule:while_static_ability]]

> **Example:** Yinti Yanti has the text "While Yinti Yanti is defending and you control an aura, it has +1\{d\}," which is a while-static ability that is functional when it is a non-permanent defending card because it has a while-condition that is met when the card is defending.

#### A static ability is functional when its source resolves as a layer on the stack and/or as its source enters the arena.

> **Example:** Conduit of Frostburn has the text "The next card you play this turn with an effect that deals arcane damage gains 'When this deals arcane damage to a hero, [...]'~," which gives a card a static ability that is functional when its source resolves as a layer on the stack.

#### A triggered-static ability, with a triggered condition that its source is outside the arena, is functional when the source meets that condition.

> **Example:** Back Alley Breakline has the text "When an activated ability or action card effect puts Back Alley Breakline face up into a zone from your deck, gain 1 action point," which is a triggered-static ability that is functional when an activated ability or action card effect puts it into that zone from the deck.

#### A static ability, with a replacement effect that modifies the event of its source moving zones, is functional when the source meets that condition.

> **Example:** Drone of Brutality has the text "If Drone of Brutality would be put into your graveyard from anywhere, instead put it on the bottom of your deck," which is a static ability with a replacement effect that is functional when Drone of Brutality would be moved to the graveyard zone.


### @@rule:modes@@ A modal ability is a choice of modes, where each mode is a base ability the source could have. A modal ability typically contains the phrase "choose [X] [CONDITIONS?]; [MODES]" where X is a cardinal number or a description of the number of modes to choose, CONDITIONS (if any) specifies one or more conditions for selecting modes, and MODES is a list of modes that can be selected.

#### Modes of the source are declared as the source is added as a layer on the stack.[[rule:play_ability_parameters]][[rule:trigger_declare_parameters]]

#### If the modal ability allows the player to select two or more modes, they cannot select the same mode more than once, unless specified by the ability. If the player may select more modes than are available, they can only select a maximum of the available modes. If two or more modes are selected, the player decides the order of those modes at the time they are declared.

> **Example:** Art of War has the text "Choose 2; [...]" followed by four modal options. Because the ability does not state that the player can choose the same option more than once, two distinct modes must be selected.

#### If the same mode is selected more than once, the modes are considered separate and do not create a compound event[[rule:compound_event]]. If the mode contains a targeted effect, the same target(s) may be selected for each time the mode is selected.

> **Example:** Blood on Her Hands has the text "Target 1H weapon has +1\{p\} while attacking this turn," which is a mode that can be selected more than once. As a targeted effect, the player may target the same 1H  weapon each time it is chosen as a mode.

#### Once the modes of a modal ability have been selected, those modes determine the base abilities of the source for rules and effects. If no modes for the source have been selected it is considered to not have any of those modes as base abilities.

#### If the number or the availability of modes is affected by a conditional or an undetermined parameter, the conditional or parameter is evaluated at the time the modes are selected.

> **Example:** Sacred Art: Undercurrent Desires has the text "If you've played another blue card this turn, choose 3. Otherwise, choose 1; [...]" The number of modes is determined at the time Sacred Art: Undercurrent Desires is played, and the modes are selected, not when it resolves.


### @@rule:connected_ability@@ A connected ability pair is a pair of abilities where the parameters and/or events of one connected ability (leading ability) are specifically referred to by the effect(s) of the other connected ability (following ability).

> **Example:** Reckless Swing has the text "As an additional cost to play Reckless Swing, discard a random card," which is a leading play-static ability that requires the player to discard a card, and "If the discarded card has 6 or more Attack, deal 2 damage to the attacking hero," which is a following resolution ability with an effect that directly refers to the card discarded from the event generated by an effect in the leading ability.

#### An ability can be part of one or more connected ability pairs. An ability can be both a leading and following ability for different connected ability pairs.

#### If a following ability cannot refer to the parameters and/or events of the leading ability, or if there are no parameters and/or events to refer to, the relevant effects of the following ability fail.

#### If an effect adds a connected ability pair (both the leading and following abilities) to an object, they are connected on that object and the added following ability will only refer to the added leading ability. If only one of the abilities is added, or both abilities are added by separate effects, then they are not connected on the object they are added to.


### The abilities of an object can be modified.



## Effects @@sec:effects@@


### An effect is generated by an ability or another effect, and can change the game state by producing events or applying changes to objects or the game itself. When a layer resolves, a static ability becomes functional, a card/ability with an alternative/additional effect-cost is played/activated, or the conditions of another effect are met, it may generate one or more discrete and/or continuous effects.

#### @@rule:effect_source@@ The source of an effect is the same as the source of the ability or effect that generated it, unless otherwise specified by the effect.

> **Example:** Electrify has the text "The next time an attack action card hits a hero this turn, it deals 3 damage to them," which is a delayed-triggered effect that triggers to deal damage, specifying the source of the damage effect as the attack action card that caused the effect to trigger.

#### @@rule:effect_controller@@ The controller of an effect is the same as the controller of the ability or effect that generated it unless otherwise specified by the effect.


### @@rule:object_with_effect@@ If the abilities of an object directly generate an effect, the object is considered an object with that effect. This includes optional and conditional effects.

> **Example:** Chain Lightning has the text "If you've played another Wizard non-attack action card this turn, deal 3 arcane damage to each opposing hero." Because the ability generates a deal (damage) effect, Chain Lightning is considered a card with an effect that deals 3 arcane damage, even though it is conditional.

> **Example:** Blazing Aether has the text "Deal X arcane damage to target hero, [...]" Because the ability generates a deal (damage) effect, Blazing Aether is considered a card with an effect that deals X arcane damage, where X is 0 until the card resolves and X is defined.

> **Example:** Clash of Might has the text "When this defends, clash with the attacking hero." Because the ability generates a clash effect, Clash of Might is considered a card with clash.

> **Example:** Thunk has the text "When you win a clash revealing this, create a Might token." Because the ability does not generate a clash effect, Thunk is not considered a card with clash.


### @@rule:optional_effect@@ An optional effect is an effect that the player may choose to be generated. An optional effect typically contains the term "may."

#### When an optional effect would be generated, or would apply to objects or the game, the player instructed by the effect chooses whether or not to generate or apply the effect.

#### If any of the optional effects cannot be generated due to a rule or effect, cannot resolve successfully based on the current game state, or contain an asset-cost which cannot be paid[[rule:asset_cost]], the effect cannot be generated/applied and the player cannot choose to generate/apply the effect. If the optional effects are phrased with "may choose to" then the player may choose to generate the effects regardless of their outcome.

> **Example:** Murky Water has the text "[...] you may banish face-down 3 traps from your graveyard." If the player 3 or more traps in their graveyard, they may choose whether or not to generate the effect to banish them. If they have 2 or fewer traps in their graveyard, they have no choice and the effect is not generated.

> **Example:** Heave partially means "[...] you may pay \{r\}\{r\}\{r\} and put this face-up into your arsenal." If the player cannot pay the resource cost or they cannot put the card into their arsenal, they cannot choose to heave the card. The play must both pay the asset-cost and be able to put the card into their arsenal to be able to heave the card.

> **Example:** Mark of the Huntsman has the text "When this hits a hero, you may choose to destroy this and mark them." Even if Mark of the Huntsman cannot be destroyed or the hero is already marked, the player may choose to generate the optional effects, in which case Mark of the Huntsman will be destroyed (if able) and the hero will be marked (if able).


### @@rule:conditional_effect@@ A conditional effect is an effect that is dependent on a condition to be met. A conditional effect is typically written in the format "(If / During) [CONDITION], [EFFECT]," where CONDITION is the condition that must be met for the EFFECT to be generated/applied. If EFFECT is a list of two or more effects, each effect is a conditional effect with the same condition.

> **Note:** Cards printed before 2022 have also used the format "If [EVENT and/or STATE] [EFFECTS]" to denote a triggered effect.[[sec:triggered_effects]]

#### @@rule:otherwise_conditional@@ A conditional effect, written in the format "Otherwise [EFFECT]," is an effect that is conditional on the opposite of a preceding conditional effect or the failure of a preceding effect. This effect's condition is met only when the preceding effect's condition is not met, or the preceding effect fails.

> **Example:** Runeblood Incantation has the text "At the beginning of your action phase, remove a verse counter from Runeblood Incantation. If you do, create a Runechant token. Otherwise, destroy Runeblood Incantation," the latter part of which is a conditional discrete effect that is conditional on the failure to remove a verse counter from Runeblood Incantation.

#### @@rule:unless_conditional@@ A conditional effect, written in the format "[EFFECT] unless [OPPCONDITION]," is an effect that is conditional on the opposite of the OPPCONDITION. This effect's condition is only met when the OPPCONDITION is not met, or the OPPCONDITION is an effect that fails[[rule:effect_fail]]. If the OPPCONDITION is an effect instead of a condition, it is an optional effect.

> **Note:** An effect that reads "Deal 2 damage to the attacking hero unless they pay \{r\}." can be read as "The attacking hero may pay \{r\}. If they don't, deal 2 damage to them."

> **Example:** Pitfall Trap has the text "Deal 2 damage to the attacking hero unless they pay \{r\}," which is a conditional discrete effect, that is conditional on the attacking hero not paying the asset-cost.

#### @@rule:while_conditional@@ A conditional effect, written in the format "[EFFECT] while [CONDITION]," is an effect that only applies as long as CONDITION is met. The CONDITION is evaluated at all times while the effect exists. If the effect applies to one or more subjects, CONDITION is evaluated per subject.

> **Example:** Parable of Humility has the text "Attack action cards controlled by an opposing hero have -1\{p\} while attacking and defending," which is a conditional static-continuous effect that applies to more than one object and a condition that is checked per object that it applies to.


### @@rule:targets@@ A targeted effect is an effect where the target parameters are declared as the object, with the ability that generates it, is put onto the stack. Targeted effects always contain the phrase "target [DESCRIPTION]" or "[DESCRIPTION] (target/targets)" where DESCRIPTION is the specifics of one or more legal targets for the effect.

#### Only objects in the arena or on the stack are targetable (can be selected as a legal target), unless the effect specifies the legal target as a zone or an object that does not exist in the arena or on the stack.

> **Example:** Memorial Ground (red) has the text "Put target attack action card with cost 2 or less from your graveyard on top of your deck." which describes a legal target as a card in the graveyard as opposed to a card in the arena or on the stack.

#### The same legal target cannot be declared more than once for any one instance of the target phrase.

#### An effect that specifies one or more subjects to affect, but does not use the term "target," is not a targeted effect. Non-target subjects do not need to be declared until the effect is generated.

> **Example:** Remembrance has the text "Shuffle up to 3 action cards from your graveyard into your deck," which is not a targeted effect because it does not use the term "target" before the specified subjects of the effect.

#### If the DESCRIPTION of a legal target is "any," then the legal targets are dependent on the application of the effect. In this context, a legal target is any target that does not cause the effect to fail for the current game state.

#### If a targeted effect is optional, the player may choose not to select a target. If a player chooses not to select a target, the optional effect is not generated.

#### If an effect modifies the target of a targeted effect, only legal targets for the targeted effect may be selected as new targets, unless otherwise specified by the modifying effect. If there is no other legal target for the targeted effect, then the target remains unmodified.

> **Example:** Taipanis, Dracai of Judgement has the text "The first time each turn another hero becomes the target of a source that would deal lethal damage, you may discard a red card. If you do, choose new targets for that source," which can modify the targets of an effect but can only select legal targets as per the original targeted effect. Taipanis cannot change the target of a hero's attack to be their own hero, because attacks can only target opposing living objects.


### @@rule:effect_parameters@@ If the parameters of an effect are undetermined at the time the effect is generated, the player instructed by the effect determines the parameters of the effect. If no legal parameters exist, then any part of the effect related to those parameters fails.

> **Example:** Remembrance has the text "Shuffle up to 3 action cards from your graveyard into your deck." This effect does not require targets when Remembrance is played on the stack, so when the effect is generated upon resolution, up to three action cards must be determined by the controlling player.

#### If two or more players are instructed to determine the parameters of an effect, those players determine the parameters in clockwise order, starting with the controller of the effect.[[rule:clockwise_order]]

> **Example:** Codex of Frailty has the text "Each hero puts an attack action card from their graveyard face down into their arsenal," which requires all players to determine what card will be selected in their graveyard to be put into their arsenal. This starts with the player who controls Codex of Frailty as it resolves on the stack.

#### If the parameters of an effect include determining an object, the player can only determine objects that are public as parameters for the effect.[[rule:object_visibility]]

> **Example:** Oasis Respite has the text "Prevent the next 4 damage that would be dealt to target hero this turn by a source of your choice," which has a parameter that can be any card or macro, as long as it is public (face-up).

#### If the parameters of an effect include determining two or more objects, but there are insufficient legal objects, all legal objects are consider the parameters of the effect.

> **Example:** System Reset has the text "Banish X Mechanologist items you control [...]." If X is already determined to be 4, but there are only 3 legal items, all 3 of those items become the parameters to the banish effect.

#### If an effect would generate a compound event, the player determines the order of the individual events.[[rule:compound_event]]

> **Example:** Tome of Imperial Flame has the text "[...] banish your hand." When the effect is generated, all the cards in the player's hand will be banished as a compound event and the player must choose the order each card is banished before the event occurs.


### @@rule:property_exists@@ If an effect refers to the value of a property, it infers the existence of the property as well as its value. If an object does not have that property, it does not meet the condition of the existence of the property and thus the condition of the value of the property.

> **Example:** Harmonized Kodachi has the text "While you have a card in your pitch zone with cost 0, [...]," which can be interpreted as "While you have a card in your pitch zone with the cost property and the value of that property is 0, [...]." This means a card without the cost property, such as Heart of Fyendal, will not satisfy the condition if it is in the pitch zone.

> **Example:** Find Center has the text "Find Center can't be defended by cards with cost less than the number of chain links you control, [...],"  which can be interpreted as "Find Center cannot be defended by cards with the cost property, if the value of the cost property is less than the number of chain links you control, [...]." This means cards without the cost property, such as Ironrot Helm, would be able to defend the attack.

> **Example:** Mutated Mass has the text "Mutated Mass's \{p\} and \{d\} are equal to twice the number of cards in your pitch zone with different costs," which can be interpreted as "Mutated Mass's \{p\} and \{d\} is equal to twice the number of cards in your pitch zone with the cost property, that have different costs." This means cards without the cost property, such as Heart of Fyendal, will not satisfy the condition (and be included in the calculation) if it is in the pitch zone.

#### If an effect requires the value of a numeric property from a specific object without that property, then zero is used as the value for the purpose of the effect.

> **Example:** Ravenous Rabble has the text "Reveal the top card of your deck. Ravenous Rabble gets -X\{p\}, where X is the pitch value of the card revealed this way." If the revealed card for this effect was Gorganian Tome, which does not have the pitch property, the value of X would be zero.


### If an effect instructs a player to perform an action "as though" the game state or rules were modified, or if an effect states an object or action "counts as" another object or action, rules and effects consider the modified game state or rules for the applicable effect only.

> **Example:** Teklovossen, the Mechropotent has the text "This counts as having 4 Evos equipped." Effects that count the number of Evos a player has equipped would have their count increased by 4 due to this effect, but effects that apply to or interact directly with equipped Evos would not be affected.


### @@rule:effect_fail@@ An effect fails if the target(s) of the effect cease to exist, if there are no legal parameters at the time the effect is generated, or if all the events it creates fail to occur. If there are sufficient parameters to allow the effect to be generated, and at least one event does not fail to occur, the effect does not fail.


### @@rule:effect_next@@ If an effect specifies "your next attack" but does not specify how the player gains control of the attack, it refers to the next attack that is played, activated, triggered, or otherwise comes under the player's control, and the effect applies to the attack at that time.

> **Example:** Prismatic Leyline has the text "Your next red attack this turn gets +1\{p\}, your next yellow gets +2\{p\}, and your next blue gets +3\{p\}." If a player plays a red attack with stealth, it will get +1\{p\}. If the red attack is replaced with a blue attack using Uzuri's activated ability, the blue attack will get +3\{p\} as it is a new attack that comes under the player's control.

#### If an object has already been played, activated, or triggered, or otherwise has come under the player's control, and then the properties of that object change to become an attack as specified by the effect, the effect does not apply.

> **Example:** Take Up the Mantle has the text "[...] you may banish an attack action card with stealth from your graveyard. If you do, the target becomes a copy of the banished card." If a player plays Prismatic Leyline, then a red attack with stealth, and finally Take Up the Mantle banishing a blue card, the attack will not get +3\{p\} from Prismatic Leyline as it was already under the control of the player and is not considered their next blue attack.



## Events @@sec:events@@


### An event is a change in the game state produced by the resolution of a layer, the result of an effect, a transition of turn phase or combat step, or an action taken by a player. An event may involve physically changing the game state through one or more instructions - it can be modified by replacement effects[[sec:replacement_effects]] and can trigger triggered effects[[sec:triggered_effects]].

#### If an event comprises an instruction that involves elements outside the game, that event cannot be modified by replacement effects or trigger triggered effects within the game, unless the event directly interacts with the game.

> **Example:** Go Bananas has the text "Open and reveal a booster pack of Flesh and Blood and put all cards with the chosen name into your hand," which creates a 'reveal' event and a 'put' event as part of its resolution. The 'reveal' event only operates outside of the game, so any replacement effects and triggered effects within the game do not interact with it.  The 'put' event directly interacts with the game by putting an object into a game zone, so replacement effects and triggered effects within the game may interact with it.

#### If an event comprises an instruction to do nothing, the event does not occur. It cannot be modified by replacement effects and does not trigger effects.

> **Example:** Blazing Aether has the text "Deal X arcane damage to target hero, where X is the amount of arcane damage you have dealt to that hero this turn." If the player has dealt 0 arcane damage this turn, the resolution of Blazing Aether produces an event that deals 0 arcane damage. Because dealing 0 arcane damage is an instruction to do nothing, it simply does not occur. It cannot be modified to deal more arcane damage by replacement effects, and it does not trigger effects for dealing arcane damage.

#### @@rule:intentional_fail@@ If an event comprises an instruction where failure cannot be verified by an opponent based on the current game state, that player may choose to fail to complete that instruction. If they do, the event simply fails as if that instruction cannot be completed.

> **Example:** Moon Wish has the text "When this hits, search your deck for a card named Sun Kiss, [...]." The opponent cannot verify that a Sun Kiss is in the player's because the deck is private to the player, so the player may choose to fail to find a card named Sun Kiss even if there is one in their deck.


### @@rule:compound_event@@ A compound event is an event that involves performing the same instructions more than once. An effect that produces a compound event is typically written in a compact format, where the effect specifies to repeat an instruction a number of times. When a compound event occurs, it is expanded, and the instructions occur as individual events.

> **Example:** Tome of Harvests has the text "Draw 3 cards," which is an effect written in compact form, that produces a compound event that involves drawing a card three times. Each draw is performed as an individual event: draw a card, draw a card, draw a card.

#### If a triggered effect triggers from a compound event, it does not trigger again for any of the individual events of that compound event.

> **Example:** Korshem, Crossroads of the Elements, has the text "Whenever a hero reveals 1 or more cards, [...]," which is a triggered effect that triggers on the compound event of revealing one or more cards, but does not then trigger on any of the individual events from that compound event.

#### If a replacement effect replaces a compound event, it cannot replace any of the individual events of that compound event.

> **Example:** Mordred Tide has the text "Until end of turn, if you would create a Runechant token, instead create that many plus 1," which replaces the compound event that creates X Runechant tokens with a compound event that creates X+1 Runechant tokens. It does not then replace each of the X+1 individual "create a Runechant token" event with "create 2 Runechant tokens."

#### If an event involves two or more players performing an instruction, it is a compound event where each player performs that instruction in clockwise order as an individual event, starting with the turn player[[rule:clockwise_order]]. If the event was produced by an effect, each player performs that instruction starting with the controller of the effect instead.

> **Example:** This Round's on Me has the text "Each hero draws a card," which when resolved produces a compound event that instructs each player to draw a card. This starts with the player who controls This Round's on Me as it resolves on the stack.


### @@rule:composite_event@@ A composite event is an event that is made up of one or more internal events. An effect that produces a composite event typically uses an effect keyword.[[sec:effect_keywords]]

> **Example:** Discard is a composite event that involves moving a card from a player's hand to their graveyard.

#### If a composite event occurs, and the composite event and/or internal event(s) would trigger the triggered effect, the triggered effect only triggers once on the composite event.

#### If a rule or effect prevents a triggered effect from triggering on a composite event and/or its internal event(s), then the triggered effect does not trigger on the composite event.

#### Replacement effects that partially modify internal events, do not modify the composite event that contains it, and therefore the composite event still occurs.

> **Example:** Discard is a composite event that involves moving a card from the hand to the graveyard. If a replacement effect replaces the destination of the move event, then the discard event is still considered to occur.

#### If no internal events of a composite event occur, then the composite event is considered not to have occurred, and triggered effects that trigger on the composite event and/or internal event(s) do not trigger.

> **Example:** Discard is a composite event that involves moving a card from the hand to the graveyard. If a replacement effect replaces the move event entirely, then the discard event is considered not to occur and abilities that trigger on discard are not triggered.



## Game State @@sec:game_state@@


### A game state is a moment in the game. The game transitions between states when an event occurs[[sec:events]]. A priority state is a game state where a player would typically receive priority.


### @@rule:game_state_action@@ When the game transitions to a new priority state, the following game state actions are performed first:

#### First, if one or more heroes have died, their player loses the game (or the game ends in a draw).[[sec:ending_a_game]]

#### Second, if one or more living objects in the arena have 0 life total, they are cleared simultaneously as a single event. Living objects that cease to exist are considered to have died.[[rule:living_object]][[rule:clear_definition]]

#### Third, if a continuous effect allows a player to look at a card based on location, they may start looking at that card until it is no longer in that location.[[rule:look_effect]]

#### Forth, if the state-condition of a state-based triggered effect is met, the effect triggers. Then, if any triggered-layers have been created, but have not been added to the stack, they are added to the stack. If two or more triggered-layers have been created, then each player in clockwise-order adds their own triggered-layers to the stack, starting with a player chosen by the turn player.[[rule:triggered_layer_order]]

#### @@rule:close_step_game_state_action@@ Fifth and finally, if the combat chain is open and a rule or effect has closed the combat chain, the Close Step of combat begins.[[rule:closing_the_combat_chain]]


### @@sec:reversing_game_state@@ If a player makes an illegal action, or starts to make an action that becomes illegal to complete, the game state is reversed to the legal state before that action started.

#### Triggered effects do not trigger as a result of the action being reversed.

#### Replacement effects cannot replace any event as a result of the action being reversed.

#### If the game state cannot be reversed, as much as possible about the state is reversed and the game continues as though it were the last legal state before the reversal.



## Priority @@sec:priority@@


### Priority is a game state concept that describes which player (if any), may play a card, activate an ability, or pass priority to the next player.


### Only one player can have priority at any point in time. A player who has priority is the "active player." A player who does not have priority is an "inactive player."


### The Action Phase is the only phase when players get priority. Within the action phase, players do not get priority during the Close Step of combat. At the beginning of the action phase, during most steps of combat, and after the resolution of a layer, the turn player gains priority.[[sec:start_phase]][[cha:combat]][[sec:resolution_abilities_resolving_layers]]


### The active player may pass priority to the next player, referred to as "pass."

#### If a player passes, priority is given to the next player in clockwise order[[rule:clockwise_order]]. Typically, if all players pass in succession without playing any cards or activating any abilities, and the stack is not empty, the top layer of the stack resolves[[sec:resolution_abilities_resolving_layers]] - otherwise if the stack is empty, the phase or step ends[[cha:game_structure]][[cha:combat]].


### If the active player plays a card or activates an ability, they regain priority after the card has been played or the ability has been activated[[rule:play_priority]]. If the active player passes, they lose priority until they receive it again from a rule. No player has priority while playing a card, activating an ability, resolving a layer, during a game process, and/or during game state actions.



## Numbers and Symbols @@sec:numbers_symbols@@


### Numbers are always integers.

#### If a rule or effect would calculate a fractional number and does not specify to round up or down, the number is rounded towards zero.

> **Example:** An effect that would calculate the number 3.5 would be rounded down to 3, but the number -3.5 would be rounded up to -3.

#### If a rule or effect requires a player to choose a number, the number selected must be a non-negative integer - zero and above. If it requires the player to choose "up to" a number, the number selected must be between zero and the specified number, inclusive.


### @@rule:x_value@@ The letter X is used to represent a value that starts undefined and is defined later by a rule or effect.

#### If an object has a property with the value X, and the value of X undefined, the object is still considered to have that property and the value of X is evaluated to be zero.

#### If an object has a property with the value X, and the value of X is defined, it remains defined until the object ceases to exist.

#### If there are two or more undefined values in the same context, the letters Y and Z may also be used to represent those undefined values.


### @@rule:star_value@@ The asterisk symbol (c) is used to represent a value that is defined by a meta-static ability.

#### If an object has a property with the value (c) and the property-static ability cannot be used to define the value or there is no corresponding property-static ability, the object is still considered to have that property and the value of (c) is evaluated to be zero.

> **Example:** Mutated Mass has an ability that defines its power and defense as double the total number of distinct costs of cards in the pitch zone. Outside of a game, this ability cannot be used to define the power and defense, so they are instead evaluated to be zero.

#### If an object has a property with the value (c) and the ability can be used to define the value, then (c) is evaluated according to the ability.


### Symbols are typically used to represent the value of specified properties.[[cha:object_properties]]

#### The defense symbol is \{d\} and represents a defense value.

#### The intellect symbol is \{i\} and represents an intellect value.

#### The life symbol is \{h\} and represents a life value.

#### The power symbol is \{p\} and represents a power value. It is also used to refer to physical damage[[rule:damage_types]].

#### The resource symbol is \{r\} and represents a resource value.

#### The chi symbol is \{c\} and represents a chi value.



## Assets @@sec:assets@@


### @@rule:asset@@ An asset is a point of a given type, owned by a player. There are four types of assets: action points, resource points, life points, and chi points.


### @@rule:action_points@@ An action point is an asset that is typically used to play an action card and/or activate an action ability.

#### A player can gain action points during their action phase from the following: at the start of their action phase[[sec:action_phase]], the ability go again[[rule:go_again_ability]], and effects that grant the player action points.

#### A player cannot gain action points if it is not their action phase. If a player would gain an action point from a rule or effect but it is not their action phase, instead they do not gain any action points.
Lead the Charge has the text "The next time you play an action card with cost 0 or greater this turn, gain 1 action point. Go again." If a non-turn player played (as an instant) Lead the Charge (red), they would not gain an action point from the ability "go again." If they then played an action card with cost 0 (as an instant), they would not gain an action point from the delayed-triggered effect of Lead the Charge.


### @@rule:resource_points@@ A resource point is an asset that is typically used to play cards and activate abilities.

#### A player can gain resource points from the following: pitching cards during the payment of an asset-cost that requires resource points[[rule:pitching]], and effects that grant the player resource points.


### @@rule:life_points@@ A life point is an asset that is paid from a player's hero's life total and is typically used to activate abilities.

#### A player can gain life points from effects that increase the player's hero's life total.


### @@rule:chi_points@@ A chi point is an asset that is typically used to play cards and activate abilities.

#### A player can gain chi points from the following: pitching cards during the payment of an asset-cost that requires chi or resource points[[rule:pitching]].

#### A chi point can be used in place of a resource point for paying resource point costs.



## Costs @@sec:costs@@


### A cost is the requirement of payment from a player incurred by playing a card, activating an ability, or resolving/applying an effect. A cost requires the payment of assets (asset-costs) and/or the successful resolution of effects (effect-costs).


### @@rule:asset_cost@@ An asset-cost is a cost that requires the payment of one or more assets[[sec:assets]]. To pay an asset-cost as a player, the player must have or gain assets of the appropriate type equal to, or greater than, the cost to be paid; then those the asset-cost amounts are subtracted from the player's assets and the cost is considered paid.

#### If an asset-cost involves paying two or more types of assets, they must be paid in the following order: chi points, resource points, life points, action points. Each type of asset must be paid in full before starting to pay for the next type.

#### If a player does not have enough assets and does not gain any additional assets to pay an asset-cost, the cost cannot be paid and the game state is reversed to before the cost is paid. If the asset-cost is mandatory and part of another action, the entire action is reversed.[[sec:reversing_game_state]].

#### @@rule:pay_chi@@ To pay a chi point cost, the player must use chi points[[rule:chi_points]]. If they have fewer chi points than required, the player may pitch cards[[rule:pitching]] one at a time until they have enough chi points to pay the cost.

#### @@rule:pay_resource@@ To pay a resource point cost, the player must use resource points and chi points[[rule:resource_points]][[rule:chi_points]]. If they have fewer resource points and chi points than required, the player may pitch cards[[rule:pitching]] one at a time until they have enough resource points and chi points to pay the cost, then the cost is paid. The player must use all of their chi points before using any of their resource points to pay a resource point cost.

> **Example:** A player has 1 resource point and plays a card with 3 cost (more than the number of resource points they have). If the player pitches a 3-pitch card, generating 3 resource points, they have finished paying the asset-cost of the card, have 1 resource point left over, and can no longer pitch cards because there are no more costs to pay. If the player pitches a 1-pitch card, generating 1 resource point, they still have 1 resource point left to pay and may continue pitching cards until the asset-cost is paid.

> **Example:** A player plays a card with 2 cost and pitches a 1-pitch card, generating 1 resource point. The player then pitches a 3-pitch card, generating 3 chi points. Because they have enough resource and chi points to pay the cost, 2 chi points are used to pay the resource point cost first, and then they have 1 chi point and 1 resource point left over.

#### @@rule:pay_life@@ To pay a life point cost, the player must use life points[[rule:life_points]].

#### @@rule:pay_action@@ To pay an action point cost, the player must use action points[[rule:action_points]].


### @@rule:pitching@@ To pitch a card as a player, the player moves the card from their hand to the pitch zone and gains assets. The pitch property of a card determines what type and how many assets a player gains when the card is pitched[[sec:pitch]].

#### A card cannot be pitched if it does not have the pitch property.

#### A player may only pitch a card if that card will gain them assets they need to pay an asset-cost or if they are instructed by an effect[[rule:pitch_effect]].

> **Example:** If a player is paying an asset-cost of 3 chi points, they may only pitch cards that will gain them chi points when pitched. They cannot pitch cards that only gain them resource points.

#### Pitching a card is an event that can trigger and be replaced by effects.


### @@rule:effect_cost@@ An effect-cost is a cost that requires payment in the form of generating one or more effects. To pay an effect-cost, the player must be able to successfully generate and resolve the specified costs.
Hope Merchant's Hood has the text "Instant – Destroy Hope Merchant's Hood: Shuffle any number of cards from your hand into your deck, then draw that many cards," which is an activated ability with an effect-cost of destroying Hope Merchant's Hood.

#### If an effect-cost involves generating two or more effects, the player declares the order in which the effects will be generated.

#### Before the effect-cost is paid, if any of the effects cannot be generated due to a rule or effect, or the effects cannot resolve successfully based on the current game state, the cost cannot be paid and the game state is reversed to before the cost is paid. If the effect-cost is mandatory and part of another action, the entire action is reversed.[[sec:reversing_game_state]].

#### During the payment of an effect-cost, if the events of any effects are replaced and cannot be successfully resolved, the cost is still considered paid.


### A cost that is represented by "0," or a cost in which all asset-costs are reduced to zero and there are no effect-costs, is still considered a cost which is paid by acknowledging the zero cost.



## Counters @@sec:counters@@


### A counter is a physical marker placed on any public object[[rule:object_visibility]]. A counter is not an object and does not have properties. The identity of a counter is defined by its name, or its numerical value and symbol. Counters with the same name, or value and symbol, are functionally identical and interchangeable.


### When a counter is on an object, it modifies its properties and/or interacts with effects.

#### A counter with a numerical value and symbol that corresponds to an object property modifies that property of the object it is on. This modification is considered a rule, not an effect, but does take place at the same time as continuous effects that modify the object in the same way.[[rule:effect_stage_order]][[rule:effect_substage_order]]


### When an object ceases to exist, the counters on that object cease to exist[[rule:become_new_object]]. When a counter is removed from an object it ceases to exist.


### If a counter would be added to an object that has a diametrically opposing counter on it, both diametrically opposing counters remain on the object.

> **Example:** If a -1\{p\} counter is placed on an object with a +1\{p\} counter on it, they both remain on the object. The counters do not cancel each other out and they are not removed from the object simply because they are diametrically opposing.
