---
title: Comprehesive Rules – Effects
description: Generating discrete, continuous, replacement, and triggered effects.
document: cr
chapter: 6
---

# Effects @@cha:effects@@



## General @@sec:effects_general@@



## Discrete Effects @@sec:discrete_effects@@


### A discrete effect is an effect that changes the game state by producing an event[[sec:events]]. Discrete effects have no duration, and after the completion of their event, they have no further influence to the game state.


### Discrete effects are atomic. If two or more discrete effects would be generated, they are generated and produce their event one at a time.

> **Example:** Sand Sketched Plan has the text "Search your deck for a card, put it into your hand, discard a random card, then shuffle your deck," which is a resolution ability that generates four atomic discrete effects: search ([[rule:search_effect]]), put ([[rule:put_object_effect]]), discard ([[rule:discard_effect]]), and shuffle ([[rule:shuffle_effect]]). Each effect is generated and produces an event before the next one in order is generated.


### If a discrete effect is conditional[[rule:conditional_effect]], its condition is evaluated only once, at the time the effect would be generated. If the condition is met, the effect is generated - otherwise, it is not.



## Continuous Effects @@sec:continuous_effects@@


### @@rule:continuous_effect_definition@@ A continuous effect modifies the state and properties of objects, and/or the rules of the game. Continuous effects either have a lasting influence effect on the game state, and continue for their specified duration, or for as long as their source ability is functional.


### @@rule:layer_continuous_effect@@ A layer-continuous effect is a continuous effect generated by the resolution of a layer. Layer continuous effects typically have a specified duration.

#### A layer-continuous effect starts as soon it is generated and ends after a specified duration. A specified duration is fixed at the time the effect is generated and does not change once generated. If no duration is explicitly specified by the effect, then the layer-continuous effect ends when it is no longer applicable.

> **Example:** Stasis Cell has the text "[...] activated abilities of target equipment can't be activated until the end of its controller's next turn." which is a layer-continuous effect that has a duration until the current controller's next turn. If the controller of the equipment changes, the duration of the effect does not change.

#### If a layer-continuous effect has variable values (such as X), the values of those variables are determined when the continuous effect is generated and do not change thereafter. If the effect is a continuous effect that applies to an object that does not yet exist, the variables are determined when the effect first applies to an object and do not change thereafter.

> **Example:** Tear Limb from Limb has the text "[...] the next Brute attack action card you play this turn gains +X\{p\}, where X is its base \{p\}," which is a layer-continuous effect where X is determined at the time the effect first starts to apply to an object, not when it is first generated.

#### If a layer-continuous effect starts to apply to an object, it continues to apply to that object even if the properties of that object change.

> **Example:** Primeval Bellow (red) has the text "Your next Brute attack this turn gains +5\{p\}." If the player plays and resolves Primeval Bellow, then Pack Hunt (a brute attack); even if the supertype brute of Pack Hunt is removed, the effect of Primeval Bellow will still apply to the Pack Hunt.

#### If a layer-continuous effect is conditional on being generated[[rule:conditional_effect]], its condition is evaluated only once, at the time the effect would be generated. If the condition is met, the effect is generated - otherwise, it is not. If the effect is conditional on being applied, the condition is still checked continuously[[rule:while_conditional]].


### @@rule:static_continuous_effect@@ A static-continuous effect is a continuous effect generated by a static ability. Static-continuous effects never have a specified duration.

#### A static-continuous effect starts as soon as the static ability that generated it becomes functional and ends when the static ability becomes non-functional[[rule:functional_ability]].

#### If a static-continuous effect has variable values (such as X), the value of those variables are determined based on the current game state and are updated if the game state changes.

#### A static-continuous effect only applies to an object while it has the properties described by the effect - if the properties of an object change, the static effect may no longer apply to that object.

#### If a static-continuous effect is conditional on being generated[[rule:conditional_effect]], its condition is evaluated at all times. The effect is generated when the condition is met and ceases to exist when the condition is not met.

> **Example:** Luminaris has the text "If there is a yellow card in your pitch zone, Illusionist attacks you control have go again," which is a conditional static-continuous effect that only exists when there is a card with a yellow color strip in the controlling player's pitch zone and does not exist otherwise.


### If a continuous effect would only apply to a future object that is yet to exist, it starts to apply to the next object that meets the specification of the effect.

> **Example:** Come to Fight has the text "The next attack action card you play this turn gains +3\{p\}," which is a layer-continuous effect that applies to the next attack action card the player plays after the generation of the effect.


### @@rule:continuous_effect_event@@ The first time a continuous effect applies to an object, or when a continuous effect changes how it modifies an object, it applies as an event which can be modified by replacement effects and trigger triggered effects. Each application of a continuous effect is considered a separate event.

> **Example:** Talisman of Featherfoot has the text "When an attack you control gains exactly +1\{p\} from an effect during the reaction step, [...]." If an attack has 0 base power and is affected by a -1\{p\} continuous effect, then it is affected by a new +2\{p\} effect during the reaction step, Talisman of Featherfoot would not trigger because an effect of exactly +1\{p\} has not been applied during the reaction step.

#### If two or more effects would apply to an object at the same time, they are applied in the order determined staging.[[rule:continuous_effect_order]].

> **Example:** Flourish (yellow) has the text "The next time an attack would gain \{p\} this turn, instead it gains that much plus 3." If there are two static continuous effects that increase \{p\} and would apply to an object at the same time, the player chooses the order of those effects and thus which one is modified by Flourish's replacement effect.



## Continuous Effect Interactions @@sec:continuous_effect_interactions@@


### @@rule:continuous_effect_order@@ Continuous effects that modify the rules of the game are applied simultaneously before continuous effects that modify objects. If there are two or more continuous effects that modify the state and/or properties of objects in the game, the effects are applied using the staging system. These effects are grouped into stages and are applied in ascending stage order, then if there are two or more effects in the same stage, the effects are applied using substage order, then timestamp order.

> **Example:** Hypothermia has the text "Attacks you control can't gain go again," which is a continuous effect that modifies the rules of the game and is applied before any effects would add the go again ability to an attack you control.


### @@rule:effect_stage_order@@ Stage order is defined by how an effect applies to the object. Effects are grouped into stages and are applied in ascending stage order. If there are two or more effects in the same stage, the effects are applied using substage order[[rule:effect_substage_order]].
* **Stage 1:** Effects that modify copyable properties are applied.[[rule:copy_effect]]
* **Stage 2:** Effects that modify or are dependent on the controller are applied.
* **Stage 3:** Effects that modify or are dependent on name, color strip, or text box are applied.
* **Stage 4:** Effects that modify or are dependent on types or subtypes are applied.
* **Stage 5:** Effects that modify or are dependent on supertypes are applied.
* **Stage 6:** Effects that modify or are dependent on abilities are applied.
* **Stage 7:** Effects that modify or are dependent on the base values of numeric properties are applied.
* **Stage 8:** Effects and counters that modify or are dependent on the values of numeric properties are applied.

#### @@rule:dependent_effect_definition@@ An effect is dependent on a stage if the application of another effect in that stage would have changed the first application of this effect, and that stage is higher than the stage for this effect. An effect is independent if it is not dependent on any stages. Dependent effects are applied in the stage on which they are dependent.

> **Example:** Thump has the text "While Thump's \{p\} is greater than its base \{p\}, it has dominate and 'When this hits a hero, they discard a card.' " which is an effect that is dependent on the value of the power \{p\} numerical property (stage 8) and affects the object's abilities (stage 6). Because effects in stage 8 can change the application of Thump's effect, and stage 8 is higher than stage 6, Thump's effect is considered dependent and is applied in stage 8 (substage 7).

#### If an effect is dependent on two or more stages, it is applied at the highest of all those stages.

#### If separate parts of an effect are applied in different stages, the separate parts of the effect each apply in their respective stages.


### @@rule:effect_substage_order@@ Substage order is used if there are two or more effects in the same stage and is defined by the dependence and type of modification within each stage. For stages 1--6, substage order is used to apply independent effects before dependent effects. For stages 7--8, effects are grouped into the following substages and are applied in ascending substage order.* **Substage 1:** All effects that add/remove a numerical property to/from the object are applied.
* **Substage 2:** Independent effects that set the value of a numerical property are applied.
* **Substage 3:** Independent effects that multiply the value of a numerical property are applied.
* **Substage 4:** Independent effects that divide the value of a numerical property are applied.
* **Substage 5:** Independent effects that add to the value of a numerical property are applied.
* **Substage 6:** Independent effects that subtract from the value of a numerical property are applied.
* **Substage 7:** Dependent effects are applied.

#### If there are two or more effects in the same substage, the effects are applied using timestamp order[[rule:effect_timestamp_order]].


### @@rule:effect_timestamp_order@@ Timestamp order is used when there are two or more effects in the same substage and is defined by the timestamp of when an effect was first generated. Effects are applied in chronological timestamp order. If there are two or more effects with the same timestamp, the order is determined by the turn player.

#### The timestamp of an effect is the moment it was generated by an ability. Layer-continuous effects are generated when their source resolves as a layer on the stack[[rule:layer_continuous_effect]] and static-continuous effects are generated when the static ability becomes functional[[rule:static_continuous_effect]].

#### If two or more effects start to apply to an object at the same time the turn player decides the order that effects apply. This decided order is only used to determine the order of effects with the same timestamps. Once a player has decided the order of effects, the order cannot be changed.

#### When a new effect is applied to an object in a given substage of ordered effects, that effect is ordered after the existing effects in that substage.


### Continuous effects are applied dynamically. If a new effect would apply, an effect no longer applies, or an effect that is already applied is modified, all of the effects are recalculated automatically in stage order.

#### If an object is modified by an effect that would make it eligible/ineligible for another effect in the current or future stage/substage, that effect is added/removed to the set of effects to be applied in that stage/substage.

> **Example:** Minnowism (red) has the text "The next attack action card with 3 or less base \{p\} you play this turn gains +3\{p\}," which is a layer-continuous effect applied in stage 8. If an attack action card with 6 base power is played, and its base power is reduced to 3 in stage 7, it becomes eligible for the application of Minnowism's effect, which will be added and applied later in stage 8.

#### If an object is modified by an effect that would make it applicable to another effect in a previous stage/substages, that other effect is not retroactively applied.


### Continuous effects that remove a property, or part of a property, from an object do not remove properties, or parts of properties, that were added by another effect.

> **Example:** Erase Face has the text "When Erase Face hits a hero, cards and tokens they own lose all class and talent types until the end of their next turn," which removes any existing class and talent supertypes of the object, but does not remove or prevent the addition of class and talent supertypes gained from other effects, such as Brand with Cinderclaw.


### Continuous effects only prevent properties, or parts of properties, from being added, removed, or otherwise modified if they explicitly specify.

> **Example:** Hypothermia has the text "Attacks you control can't gain go again," which prevents effects from adding the go again ability to the object, but does not remove the go again ability if it is a base ability of the object.



## Replacement Effects @@sec:replacement_effects@@


### A replacement effect is a type of effect that replaces an event with a modified event. A replacement effect typically specifies the conditions for the event to be replaced and the partial or full replacement.

#### A sub-event is an event that may occur when a replacement effect replaces an event. Sub-events occur when the event is replaced, before the original event, and may also be replaced by replacement effects.

> **Example:** Ward 1 is a replacement effect that destroys its source and prevents 1 damage. The destruction of its source is a sub-event that occurs before the event of damage is dealt.


### A replacement effect is considered active if an event is about to occur that can be replaced by the effect.

#### The condition of replacement and any variable values are determined each time a replacement effect could be applied to an event.

> **Example:** Arcanite Fortress has the text "Spellvoid X, where X is the number of equipment you control with Arcanite in their name." The value of X for Spellvoid is determined each time the replacement effect of Spellvoid could be applied. If another replacement effect is applied first, the value of X is recalculated before Spellvoid can be applied.


### A replacement effect must exist before an event occurs to replace it. If a replacement effect is generated after an event occurs, it does not retroactively replace that event.


### A replacement effect can replace an event that has been modified by another replacement effect, as long as the effect is active for that modified event.


### A replacement effect can only replace an event once per original event. It cannot replace its own modified event, or any further modified events produced by other replacement effects if it has already replaced the event.


### If an event is replaced with a modified event, the event does not occur and the modified event occurs instead. The modified event may cause other replacement effects to be active that would not have been active for the replaced event. If the modified event occurs, it may trigger effects that the replaced event would not have triggered.


### @@rule:self_replacement_effect@@ A self-replacement effect is a replacement effect that applies to a preceding effect generated by either the same ability or a leading connected ability[[rule:connected_ability]]. A self-replacement effect is typically written in the format "[EFFECT]. [CONDITION], instead [MODIFICATION]," where EFFECT (if any) is the preceding effect the replacement applies to, CONDITION specifies the replacement condition, and MODIFICATION specifies the partial or full replacement of the event created by the preceding effect.

> **Example:** Tome of Divinity has the text "Draw 2 cards. If a card has been put into your soul this turn, instead draw 3 cards." This is a discrete effect and self-replacement effect. When the card resolves on the stack, if the player has put a card into their hero's soul this turn, the self-replacement effect replaces the event of drawing 2 cards with drawing 3 cards.

#### A self-replacement effect does not modify any event other than the event created by the proceeding effect on its source, or the effect of the leading connected ability.

#### The condition of a self-replacement effect is evaluated at the time the preceding effect is generated. If the condition is dependent on any undetermined parameters of the preceding effect, it is evaluated at the time those parameters are determined.

> **Example:** Weave Earth (red) has the text "The next Earth or Elemental attack action card you play this turn gains +3 \{p\}. If it's fused, instead it gains +4\{p\}." the latter of which is a self-replacement effect with a condition that is dependent on the parameters of a future card. When an Earth or Elemental attack action card is played later that turn, the parameter of whether it is fused is determined, the condition of the self-replacement effect is evaluated, and the self-replacement effect may be applied.


### @@rule:identity_replacement_effect@@ An identity-replacement effect is a replacement effect. Identity-replacement effects are typically written in the format "As [CONDITION] [MODIFICATION]," or "[CONDITION] (as/with) [MODIFICATION]," where CONDITION describes an event, typically an object entering the arena, and MODIFICATION describes the modifications to the event.

> **Example:** Hyper Driver (red) has the text "This enters the arena with 3 steam counters." This is an identity-replacement effect where the condition is the Hyper Driver entering the arena and the modification is that it enters the arena with 3 steam counters on it.

#### An identity-replacement effect that modifies the properties of the specified object defines its copyable properties.


### @@rule:standard_replacement_effect@@ A standard-replacement effect is a continuous replacement effect. A standard-replacement effect is typically written in the format "(If / The next) [CONDITION], instead [MODIFICATION]," where CONDITION specifies the condition for the replacement effect to be active, and MODIFICATION describes the modifications to the effect before it occurs.

> **Note**: Cards printed before 2022 have also used the format "(When / Whenever) [CONDITION] instead [EFFECT]."


### @@rule:prevention_effect@@ A prevention effect is a replacement effect that replaces a damage event with a modified event. Prevention effects are typically written in a format "[CONDITION?] prevent [PREVENTION]," where the CONDITION (if any) specifies the replacement condition, and PREVENTION is the modification which specifies the total amount of damage the effect can prevent, damage type(s) (if any), the shielded object(s) and/or source(s) of the damage event, and additional modifications to the event (if any).

#### If a prevention effect is applied to a damage event, for every 1 damage of the given type that would be dealt to the shielded object from the damage source, the 1 damage is prevented and the remaining prevention amount of the effect is reduced by 1. If the prevention amount has been reduced to 0, any remaining damage is dealt as normal.

#### If the prevention amount is not explicitly specified, the prevention amount is defined as the amount of damage in the damage event.

> **Example:** Feign Death has the text "The next time you would be dealt damage this turn, prevent it," which does not explicitly specify the prevention amount. If the damage event that Feign Death will apply to is 3 damage, then the prevention amount of this effect is considered to be 3.

#### If the prevention damage type is not specified, the prevention applies to any and all damage types. If the prevention damage type is specified, the prevention only applies to that type of damage.

#### If the source of the damage event is not specified, the prevention applies to all damage that applies to the specified shielded object(s).

#### If the shielded object is not specified, the prevent applies to all damage dealt by the specified source(s) of the damage event.

#### If there are two or more types of damage in the event that the prevention can apply to, and/or two or more shielded objects the damage event will deal damage to, the controller of the prevention effect declares each point of damage the effect will prevent.

#### If an effect decreases the amount a prevention effect would prevent, the total prevention is determined, the prevention effect's prevention amount is reduced, and then the prevention effect is applied to the event with the decrease.

> **Example:** Vambrace of Determination has the text "The next prevention effect that prevents \{p\} damage this turn, prevents 1 less of that damage." If Feign Death's effect would be applied to an event of 3\{p\} damage, first the total prevention is established as 3, then it is reduced by Vambrace of Determination's effect, preventing only 2 damage.

> **Example:** Vambrace of Determination has the text "The next prevention effect that prevents \{p\} damage this turn, prevents 1 less of that damage." If Bone Head Barrier's effect has a prevention amount of 3 and would be applied to an event of 3\{p\} damage, first the total prevention is established as 3, the Bone Head Barrier's prevention amount is subtracted, then the total prevention is reduced by Vambrace of Determination's effect. Bone Head Barrier can't prevent any more damage as its prevention amount is 0, but it only prevents 2 damage.

#### If an effect states that a prevention effect cannot prevent the damage of an event, the prevention effect still applies to the event but its prevention amount is not reduced. Any additional modifications to the event by the prevention effect still occur.

> **Example:** Spectral Shield has the text "If your hero would be dealt damage, instead destroy Spectral Shield and prevent 1 damage that source would deal," which is a fixed-prevention effect with an additional modification that destroys the source. If a damage event occurs that cannot be prevented, Spectral Shield's prevention effect applies once to the event but does not reduce the damage dealt and Spectral Shield is still destroyed.

> **Example:** Steadfast has the text "Prevent the next 6 damage that would be dealt to your hero this turn by a source of your choice," which is a shielding-prevention effect. If a damage event occurs that cannot be prevented, Steadfast's prevention effect applies once to the event but does not reduce the damage dealt and does not have its prevention amount reduced. As such will still be able to prevent a total of 6 damage from the source after the event.

#### @@rule:fixed_prevention_effect@@ A fixed-prevention effect is a prevention effect that acts as a one-off effect. It prevents a specific amount of damage from an event that activates it. Fixed-prevention effects are typically written in the format "[CONDITION], prevent [PREVENTION]." After a fixed-prevention effect prevents damage, any remaining prevention amount is not used to prevent a subsequent damage event.

> **Example:** Dissipation Shield has the text "Instant - Destroy Dissipation Shield: The next time your hero would be dealt damage this turn, prevent X damage, where X is the number of steam counters on Dissipation Shield," which is a fixed-prevention effect that modifies to the next event that would deal damage to your hero this turn but does modify any additional damage events that turn.

#### @@rule:ongoing_prevention_effect@@ A shielding-prevention effect is a prevention effect that acts as a shield. It prevents a specific amount of damage from any number of events that activate it. Shielding-prevention effects are typically written in the format "[CONDITION?] prevent the next [PREVENTION]." After a shielding-prevention effect prevents damage, any remaining prevention amount is used to prevent a future damage event. If the prevention amount of a shielding-prevention effect is reduced to zero, the effect ceases to exist.

> **Example:** Bone Head Barrier has the text "Roll a 6 sided die. Prevent the next X damage that would be dealt to your hero this turn, where X is the number rolled," which is a shielding-prevention effect that applies to every event that would deal damage to your hero this turn until X damage has been prevented in total.


### @@rule:outcome_replacement_effect@@ An outcome-replacement effect is a replacement effect that replaces the outcome of an event with another event. A outcome-replacement effect is typically written in the format "(If / The next) [CONDITION], instead [MODIFICATION]," where CONDITION specifies the condition for the replacement effect to be active, and MODIFICATION describes the modifications to the effect before it occurs.

> **Example:** Victor has the text "The first time each turn you would fail to win a clash, instead you may destroy a Gold you control. If you do, put 1 of the revealed cards on the bottom of its owner's deck, then clash again." This is an outcome-replacement effect where the condition is failing to win a clash and the modification is choosing to destroy a gold, modifying the top of a deck, and clashing again.



## Replacement Effect Interactions @@sec:replacement_effect_interactions@@


### If there are two or more replacement effects that could replace an event with a modified event, then effects are applied based on an order determined by the turn player and then an order determined by each controlling player.


### **Select Player**: First, the turn player selects a player. When a type of replacement effect is applied, each player in clockwise order applies their active replacement effects of that type one-by-one until they do not control any more active replacement effects of that type; starting with the selected player and ending when there are no more active replacement effects of that type to apply.

#### The turn player does not determine the order of effects they do not control, only the first player to apply replacement effects.

#### The selected player is determined once per event and does not change.


### **Self-replacement and Identity-replacement**: Second, each player applies any self- or identity- replacement effects they control.


### **Standard-replacement**: Third, each player applies any active standard-replacement effects they control.


### **Prevention**: Fourth, each player applies any active prevention effects they control.


### **Event**: Fifth, the event occurs.


### **Outcome-replacement**: Sixth, each player applies any active outcome-replacement effects they control.


### **Event**: Seventh, and finally, the event is complete.



## Triggered Effects @@sec:triggered_effects@@


### @@rule:triggered_effect_definition@@ A triggered effect is an effect that can be triggered to put a triggered-layer on the stack. Triggered effects are typically written in the format "[LIMIT?] (When / Whenever / At / The [ORDINAL] time / The next time) [EVENT and/or STATE] [ABILITIES]." Triggered effects never use the term "instead"[[sec:replacement_effects]].

> **Note**: Cards printed before 2022 have also used the format "If  [EVENT and/or STATE] [ABILITIES]" and "[LIMIT?] effect - (When / Whenever) [EVENT and/or STATE] [ABILITIES]."

#### The LIMIT (if any) specifies the trigger limit, which is the maximum number of times the effect can be triggered. If there is no limit, the effect can be triggered any number of times.

#### The ORDINAL (if any) is one or more ordinal numbers that specify which event(s) within the given duration will match the trigger condition.

#### The EVENT and/or STATE specifies the event- and/or state-trigger condition that triggers the effect and creates a triggered-layer. If the triggered condition describes an event (or an event and state), the effect is an event-based triggered effect; if the trigger condition describes a game state, the effect is a state-based triggered effect. The trigger condition is not inclusive of the conditions of any effects the triggered-layer would generate[[rule:conditional_effect]].

#### The ABILITIES specifies the resolution abilities of the triggered-layer created by the effect. When the triggered-layer resolves, the resolution abilities of the layer generate effects.


### @@rule:inline_triggered_effect@@ An inline-triggered effect is a discrete triggered effect that can only trigger when it is generated. Inline-triggered effects are typically written in the format "When [CONDITION] [EFFECT]."

> **Example:** Belittle has the text "As an additional cost to play Belittle, you may reveal an attack action card with 3 or less base \{p\} from your hand. When you do, search your deck for a card named Minnowism, reveal it, put it into your hand, then shuffle your deck," where the latter effect is an inline-triggered effect that is conditional on the payment of the preceding effect-cost.

#### An inline-triggered effect does not trigger retroactively if the condition is met after the effect is generated.


### @@rule:delayed_triggered_effect@@ A delayed-triggered effect is a layer-continuous triggered effect. Delayed triggered effects typically contain, but do not start with the phrase "(when / whenever / at / the [ORDINAL] time / the next time)," or they start with the phrase "The next time."

> **Example:** Lead the Charge (blue) has the text "The next time you play an action card with cost \{r\}\{r\} or greater this turn, gain 1 action point," which is a delayed-triggered effect that triggers and creates a triggered-layer when the player plays a card with that cost. When the triggered-layer resolves the player gains 1 action point.

#### A delayed triggered effect always specifies its duration, unless it is conditional on a change in phase (end of turn) or step (combat chain closes), in which case the effect lasts until it is triggered.


### @@rule:static_triggered_effect@@ A static-triggered effect is a static-continuous triggered effect. Static triggered effects typically start with the phrase "[LIMIT?] (When / Whenever)" or  "At / The [ORDINAL] time)."

> **Note:** Cards printed before 2022 have also used the format "[LIMIT] Effect -- [EFFECT]," where LIMIT (if any) specifies the maximum number of times the triggered effect can be triggered, and EFFECT specifies the triggered effect of the ability.

> **Example:** Rhinar has the text "When you discard a card with 6 or more \{p\} during your action phase, intimidate," which is a static-triggered effect that triggers and creates a triggered-layer when you discard a card with 6 or more \{p\}, and when that triggered-layer resolves, the intimidate effect is generated.


### If a game event or game state meets a triggered effect's trigger condition, the effect is considered triggered. When an effect is triggered, it creates a triggered-layer.

#### A triggered effect must exist before an event or change in state occurs that satisfies its trigger condition, for it to be triggered. If a triggered effect is generated after an event or change in state occurs that satisfies its trigger condition, it does not retroactively trigger. The exception is inline-triggered effects, which triggers as it is generated if its trigger condition is met.

#### An event-based triggered effect only triggers if an event that meets the triggered condition occurs. If the event is modified before it occurs and no longer meets the triggered condition, the effect does not trigger[[sec:replacement_effects]]. If the trigger condition also includes a state-trigger condition, that condition must also be met by the game state at the time the event occurs for the effect to trigger.

#### A state-based triggered effect triggers if the game state did not initially meet the trigger condition, then changes and meets the trigger condition. If a state-based triggered effect is generated while the game state meets the trigger condition, the effect will trigger.

> **Example:** Hyper Driver (blue) has the text "This enters the arena with a steam counter. When it has none, destroy it." the latter of which is a state-based triggered effect. If a Hyper Driver enters the arena with no steam counters, the triggered effect is generated, the state-based condition is met, and the effect is triggered, destroying the Hyper Driver on resolution.

#### If the trigger condition is proceeded by an ordinal as part of the condition, the effect will only trigger on the specified ordinal time(s) the condition is met, relative to the specified duration. If the effect becomes functional after the specified ordinal time(s) the condition would be met, the effect will not trigger for the rest of the specified duration.

> **Example:** If a card has the text "The first time you boost each turn, gain an action point," and it is put into the arena as a permanent after you've boosted that turn, it will not trigger the next time you boost that turn because the ordinal time "first" is relative to the turn and has already happened.

#### If the triggered effect is triggered, but it would exceed the maximum number of times specified by the trigger limit (if any), the triggered-layer is not created and will not be added to the stack.

#### If the triggered effect is triggered, but there is an effect that prevents it from triggering, the triggered-layer is not created and will not be added to the stack. However, the triggering still counts towards the limit of the effect (if any).

> **Example:** Katsu has the text "The first time an attack action card you control hits each turn, [...]" and Tripwire Trap has the text "Hit effects don't trigger this chain link [...]."  If the Tripwire Trap continuous effect is active and the player that controls Katsu hits with an attack action card, the Katsu triggered effect will not produce a triggered-layer on the stack because Tripwire Trap continuous effect prevents it. The next time this turn the player that controls Katsu hits with an attack action card, the Katsu triggered effect will not produce a triggered-layer on the stack because the once-per-turn limit has already been reached.


### When a triggered-layer is created, it is added to the stack before the next player receives priority as a game state process.[[rule:game_state_action]]

#### @@rule:trigger_declare_parameters@@ When a triggered-layer is added to the stack, the player that controls the effect must declare the parameters of all abilities of that layer. If the card has any modal resolution abilities, the player must declare the modes for those abilities[[rule:modes]]. Then, if any resolution abilities generate effects that require a target, the player must declare all legal targets for those effects [[rule:targets]]. If no legal targets can be declared, the triggered-layer ceases to exist and is not added to the stack.

> **Example:** Thaw has the text "While Thaw is in your graveyard, at the start of your turn, you may banish it and choose 1: Destroy target Frostbite. Destroy target Ice affliction. Unfreeze target frozen card." To add Thaw's triggered-layer to the stack, the controlling player must first select the mode and choose a legal target for that mode, otherwise the triggered-layer ceases to exist and will not be added to the stack.

#### @@rule:triggered_layer_order@@ If two or more triggered-layers would have been created, the turn player selects a player, then each player in clockwise order adds all pending triggered-layers they control onto the stack in an order they choose, starting with the selected player.

> **Example:** Celestial Kimono has the text "[...] when or a non-token permanent you control with ward is destroyed, gain \{r\}." and Diadem of Dreamstate has the text "[...] when this [...] is destroyed, you may pay \{r\}. If you do, create a Ponder token. Ward 1." If Diadem of Dreamstate is destroyed, the controlling player may choose to order their trigger-layers so they gain \{r\} from Celestial Kimono before paying \{r\} for Diadem of Dreamstate, even if they are not the turn player.
